README 3week
------------
Seven weeks of training data are being created at
MIT Lincoln Laboratory and provided as part
of the 1998 DARPA Intrusion Detection Evaluation. 
The first two weeks should be considered as "alpha"
training data collected as the simulation becomes fully
instantiated and reaches a steady state. This data should
be used for initial training and development of intrusion
detection systems. The final five weeks of training data
will be similar to test data and should be used for final 
training and development of intrusion detection
systems. These five weeks of data will include more types
of background traffic and attack variants than the first 
two weeks of data. These five weeks of data will
also be generated using the same procedures
that will be used with the test data.

An intermittent problem was noticed for weeks three to 
five of training data. Web servers located outside the
simulated government installation were often crashing 
early in the day. This resulted in many HTTP sessions with no
web content being transmitted. This problem was fixed 
during the last few days of week six. Although this 
problem occurs in real world data, it doesn't occur
with such high frequency. We therefore decided to provide
an extra week of training data (week seven) to make sure
anomaly detection systems are provided with more than a week
of training data with all web traffic present. 

The first week of training data starts with a large amount
of background traffic and an average of two attacks per day. During
the first and second week, services, attacks,  
and additional traffic types are added until traffic patterns 
reach a final steady state by the
end of the second week. Following the second week, the final
five weeks of training data remain similar to each other
with regard to attack types and background traffic except for
the many empty HTTP connections in weeks three through six.
The seven weeks of data include more than
150 instances of more than 20 different attack types.
The first three weeks of training data include 34 instances 
of 23 different attack types.

BSM and tcpdump data collection normally begins at 8 AM each
weekday and ends 6 AM on the following day, providing
22 hours of data each day.  These start and stop times are not
exact, but vary from day to day. 
Data collected on each day are provided in separate directories.
Data starting on Monday through Friday is placed in separate 
directories named Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday or
named using these weekday names.
Data was collected continuously on a real network which simulated
more than 1000 virtual hosts and more than 700 virtual users. Auditing and
tcpdump is turned off at 6 AM each morning when all machines are
taken down and re-booted. During this down time, a full backup 
is made for the Solaris host named pascal using ufsdump and preparations
are made for the next day's simulation run.
Auditing and tcpdump is then restarted
at roughly 8 AM each morning. The state of all simulation 
machines including pascal (the Solaris machine being audited) should 
not change substantially during down time and no attacks or attack setups
on these machines are performed during down time.

Pascal dump files created using ufsdump are not provided on
the Lincoln web site after week one of training  because 
they consume too much disk space
and because very few participants in the 1998 evaluation are using this
data.  These dump files will be provided on CDROM, 
but only to those participants who explicitly request these CDROM's.
Send requests for pascal ufsdump CDROM's to 
darpa-intrusion-eval-admin@sst.ll.mit.edu.
CDROMS containing tcpdump and BSM data are mailed out roughly a week after
the data is posted to the Lincoln web site.

The format of the distribution files was changed for week three. 
Data files for each day were split up into smaller pieces  
to reduce download times by allowing participants to selectively
download only data they require, and also to allow us to
separately update list and attack description files to correct any
errors we or others discover. As noted below, six separate files are
now provided for each day. These are the following:

	1. BSM list file
	2. TCPDUMP list file
	3. TCPDUMP data file
	4. binary BSM data file
	5. ascii BSM praudit file
	6. PS monitor output file 

Please read all the README files in the subdirectories.

Files in this directory 
===========================
README	     - this file describing the contents of all files
attacks.html - describes all attacks for this week and past weeks

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
3weekdoc.tar - a tar file containing descriptive information for this week
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
README.formats	- describes the format of list files which list all 
		  network sessions
hosts.memo	- lists ip addresses, host names, and operating systems of hosts
network.ps	- a postscript picture of the simulation network including 
		  ip addresses of important hosts

bin/ - contains sniffer, dump, and psmonitor shell scripts 
    README.bsm     - describes contents of bin directory
    run_sniffer    - shell script used to start sniffing on solomon 
    run_psmonitor  - shell script to run ps periodically on pascal 
		     and store output in psmonitor log file
    run_dump       - shell script used to create system dump of 
		     Solaris from pascal 

config/ - contains bsm and pascal configuration information 
    README.bsm 	   - describes the bsm configuration files used in this simulation 
    README.pascal  - describes how to obtain configuration information for the
		     Solaris workstation named pascal which runs BSM auditing 
    audit_class	   - pascal BSM configuration file
    audit_control  - pascal BSM configuration file
    audit_event    - pascal BSM configuration file
    audit_startup  - shell script used to make sure BSM auditing on pascal
		     includes important system background processes 
    audit_user     - pascal BSM configuration file
    hosts.equiv    - /etc/hosts.equiv file listing trusted hosts for pascal
    services       - /etc/services file for pascal

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
monday/
tuesday/
wednesday/
thursday/
friday/ - directories containing bsm and tcp dump data, attack information, 
             and list files for each day
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the following six files are provided for each day  

    bsm.list.gz - The list file for the bsm data which indicates where all
		  sessions begin and end and labels attacks. The format 
		  for this file is described in "README.formats." 

    bsm.gz - The actual raw binary bsm audit data for this day.
		    Information describing how BSM was configured is
		    provided in the ./config directory.

    praudit.gz - The ascii BSM audit data created by running the
			binary bsm audit data through praudit.

    psmonitor.gz - The results of running the UNIX ps command
			  every 60 seconds the Solaris host
			  where auditing was turned on (pascal). 
			  The shell script that created this file 
			  is provided in ./bin/run_psmonitor

    tcpdump.gz - The raw tcpdump data from the sniffer in this simulation.
		 The shell script used to start the sniffer is provided
		 in ./bin/run_sniffer.

    tcpdump.list.gz - The list file for tcpdump data which indicates where
		      all sessions begin and end and labels attacks. The 
		      format for this file is described in "README.formats"


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(last updated Aug 17, 1998)